Alexa, send me some room service.
>> Room service has been notified.
>> Anything can be controlled through
Alexa. We all have this experience as
business travelers. You don't want to
know where the switches are. You don't
know how to manage the air conditioning.
You don't want to learn anything at all.
I had this vision of a room that is
managed through natural language.
>> Order a margarita pizza.
>> This is exactly what I've been waiting
for. These people felt that their life
go could go to, sorry to say this, to
in one month. How has this impacted
customer experience? Cuz better customer
experience, more word of mouth
marketing, more people going to come
back.
>> I can bet on that that AI is going to
substitute marketing efforts in the next
5 years. I'm sure this is going to
happen.
>> Hi everyone. Thank you for showing up
today. We have amazing guesto
Martinez and he is the CMO of Minor
Hotel. They have 550 locations globally,
five-ish billion in revenue, and 67,000
employees. I think I got it all correct.
Right.
>> That's right. The other thing is I'm the
CMO of the European and American Pilot.
>> That's right. Um, and before that, you
were at senior roles for Pepsi, Proctor
and Gamble, um, a lot of amazing large
corporations. But, um, I have some
interesting things that I want to talk
to you guys about. And the first thing I
want to talk to you guys about is you
led an initiative an initiative in which
you wanted to integrate Alexa within a
lot of the hotels. So then that way
people can control the hotel rooms from
a voice aspect and uh use commands which
I thought was really cool cuz people see
that kind of stuff on TV. Very few of
them actually implement that technology
into their home but a lot of people want
to. and you're implementing it within
your hotel rooms, which I thought was a
really cool concept.
>> Let let me be I I want I want to do it
again, but let me be in modest in for
for a second. This this is this I mean I
I for the time I've been in in
hospitality, I always had a vision. I I
my my my hotel my company my hotel
company 50% of the of the people that
comes to our hotels are business
travelers. We all have this experience
as business travelers. We get into a
secondary city where we have a next day
meeting. We arrive at 700 p.m. We we are
picked up at the hotel one hour later
because we have a dinner. Then we come
back at se at 12:00 to the to the room
and at 7:00 a.m. we need to leave the
hotel. And if there's something that you
cannot do at that moment that you want
do don't want to do at that moment is
learn how to manage the hotel room. You
don't want to know where the switches
are. you don't know how to to to manage
the air conditioning. You don't want to
learn anything at all. So I I had this
vision of a of a room that is wanted was
managed through natural language that
you could go inside to the room and say
turn the light off, turn the light off,
rise the the air conditioning, load the
rice condition. So I didn't have to put
any kind of effort in understanding how
the how the room works. So this was my
vision and I one of the things I I I
carry on in in in my company is the
definition of experience. So when Alexa
came into my life and I said this is
exactly what what I've been waiting for
because it was not only that the
information that Alexa has but also
Alexa is integraable with lights with
air conditioning with shades with many
things.
>> Yeah. So my vision of that natural voice
control room could come to a to an end
or to a beginning at least. So when when
the people in in Amazon contacted us and
they told us that they were they had
this initiative to push their Alexa
through
the world and using the hotel rooms as a
sampler for many people. We said we are
your people. We want you. I told him I I
want you. I mean you you are you are the
tool I have been expecting to start
developing this vision that I always had
of a a room that is managed through
natural language. You don't need to
learn how to manage the telephone how to
call to the concarch anything just Alexa
um call I want a taxi Alexa send me some
room service anything can be controlled
and uh through Alexa. So we are at early
stages. Some of the the features that I
I was looking for are already
implemented in in in 10,00 rooms that
where we are running a test in in
basically in Spain and some new features
are getting into the into the equation.
H we already have lights that are
controlled through voice and we also
have air conditioning and temperature
heating that is also controlled by
voice. See, I think that's cool because
I travel a lot because my company, we're
not as global as you guys are, but we're
in 20 plus countries at the moment. And
when I look at my journey as an
entrepreneur, I have to h I have people
all over the world that work for me. So,
I travel all the time. Sometimes I'm
doing two plus international trips per
week. So, I tend to stay in a lot of
hotels. And when I'm staying in hotels,
one thing that most people, including
me, tend to do is we adjust the
temperature. Usually walk into a hotel
room, sometimes it's just right, but a
lot of times it's either too cold or too
hot.
>> Um, because everyone's body runs
differently and they prefer a specific
temperature.
>> So, I have to walk around the hotel room
to find the silly temperature uh meter.
And then if they upgrade you, cuz I
travel a lot, I typically book a normal
room, but sometimes they give you a free
upgrade and you got a living room and
then you got a bedroom. Now I got to go
walk around and find two or three of
these temperature gauges, the
thermometers, and change the or
thermostats and change the uh
temperature in the room to my liking.
And at the time of going to bed, you
have 15 lights around you in that
switch. And then you say, "Oh my god,
now you should start going around. You
only want to go to bed." No, no. It's I
mean what what pursu what we are
pursuing obeys to a need. I mean there's
a guest in I mean if you're going for to
a resort for 15 days, you can take the
time of looking around managing the TV
control. I mean you're not in such a
rush. that if you're going to spend 10
hours out of which seven are going to be
slept, you don't want to do learn
anything about that room. Just be as
easy as possible.
No. And I was recently in a five-star
hotel room uh in Florida less than a
week ago. And when I was there, there
were so many different light switches, I
couldn't figure out how to turn off the
ones next to the bed. And I was just fed
up. So what I started doing is I started
unplugging the lights from the wall
because it was more convenient.
>> So I I we will let you know when we have
um Alexa hotels in in in your territory
so you can come to our hotel rooms.
>> No. So here's a question for you. You're
testing it out on a thousand rooms. How
has this impacted customer experience?
Because better customer experience, more
word of mouth marketing, more people
going to come back. Um, and when I say
how's it impacted customer experience,
do you have data on how people are
actually using it? Like do majority of
the people use it? Do they not use it?
And I'm curious also how this has
affected bookings as well and revenue.
>> Definitely we are measuring we are in
the process of testing. So so far so we
have not come to sound conclusions. We
always this we are a very let's call it
financialdriven company as most of the
companies do. So this project has a
business case behind it. So there are
two ways of um addressing the extra cost
that having Alexa in in our rooms
conveys. One would be how we can grow
the the room service. I mean if we are
able to deliver more room service
because people finds easier to book an
hamburger or a beer or whatsoever to the
to the room and we are measuring that
way. The second thing that we are
measuring as you were saying is if we
get a better quality impact in our
customers, we will receive more
recurrent
guests and then we will be able to to
grow the the the number of our guests in
in in our hotels and we are measuring
that. We don't have the results so far
because we started pretty recently. We
don't have some results but these are
the two ways that we are measuring
through the increase in room services
and some of the things that we're trying
to sell through through Alexa like for
example trips local trips experiences
we're trying also to to sell those kind
of things through Alexa inside the room.
The second thing is going is is is
quality and how it's it impacts the the
perception of of the room and and as
such the value of the services that our
guests receive.
So going back to integrating alexexas
within the hotel room. I have a very
specific question related to onboarding.
So in business a lot of companies
release new features. Uh whether you're
B2B or B TOC or SAS people release new
features. I would consider this a new
feature within your hotel rooms. Now
granted, you know, someone's not just
coming into a hotel room and saying,
"Hey, Alexa, turn off the lights or open
the shades." Because they don't know
yet, assuming this is their first
experience. Because even if they're
repeat guests in your hotel, this is a
new project. So, the chances are they
haven't experienced this yet. What is
marketing doing to onboard these hotel
guests to get them to understand that
there's this feature in the room? So
that way they know how to a or so a they
know they can use it and b they know the
prompts and the queries and how they can
converse with Alexa to actually get this
done.
>> Okay. I mean there are very very very
valid questions. We are we are I mean
but we are we are not doing
extraordinary things. We are featuring
that in in in the in the description of
our of of these rooms in in in the
website and so on. We are we are putting
some um this cartoon triangles that we
have in the room
announcing the features that room has
and also we have produced a video that
runs in Alexa explaining what Alexa can
do for you. So what what we're inviting
people when we get into the room at the
front desk level you have an Alex in
your room go and try to talk with him
and as soon as you contact with Alexa
this um training video this on boarding
video bless you bless you this on
boarding video will run so it it will
give you some idea of what is going on
with with Alexa inside your room
>> got it um and I think that's actually
smart on the when they're checking in
letting them know that you just
mentioned that makes onboarding easier
so they know to look into that or look
for it when they enter the room and
they're probably increases the
>> to be honest we we we provide um um um
the opportunity of having Alexa and also
we give them um comfort on the privacy
side we say that this Alexa is not
connected to anything we we are not
recording anything and you can be free
at and at speech in in in your room or
at action because we we there's nothing
that is going to go beyond what what
what is in the in the in the device
itself.
>> Yeah. Now another area that I wanted to
discuss which is different than the
technology and the Alexa piece is the
hospitality and travel industry.
>> If you look at the hospitality and
travel industry, I would say over the
last four or five years, there's been a
lot of ups and downs. Um COVID caused a
big freeze in which people weren't
traveling as much. Then after COVID,
people are like, "Man, we haven't
traveled in a long time. Let's go out
there, travel a ton, experience the
world." Uh and then, you know, you we've
had a lot of economic shifts globally.
And because you guys are global, you're
seeing them whether it's with GDP slow
down or inflation or uh businesses
laying off uh and people slowing down on
travel because either lower jobs or um
people just not making as much or just
not needing to travel as much. What do
you guys do from a marketing standpoint
to try to create consistency and revenue
during bad economic times? Right. And
you guys are publicly traded. And as you
mentioned, when you're publicly traded,
it doesn't matter what business you are
in, of course, you care about the brand,
the customer experience, but you also
have to think financially as well
because you have shareholders. So, you
have shareholder responsibility to
perform and do the best you can for them
as well.
>> Absolutely. I mean, it's is not an easy
question. I I'm not going to give you
any any kind of magic formula. I mean
our our our company itself um we have
two very different business. We have the
B2C business. We we seek for transient
customers that work on their own. They
make their own decisions. But we also
have 50% out of business is B2B business
is is meeting and events in our in in
our hotels group events in our hotels
laser groups in our hotels. So we have a
a pretty balanced demand. So when when
B2C maybe is falling because I mean
there's uncertainty regarding people
keeping their jobs and so on we always
have the other side where we can make a
push to have more leisure groups in in
our in our in our hotels more B2B groups
in our hotel more m events m events in
in our hotels said this and and talking
specifically about the last five years
let me tell you that what we one of the
things that we have noticed and I'm sure
you you've already aware of what I'm
going to this trend I'm going to to to
to share with you is that after COVID it
happened um sort of shift in in in
the interest of consu of consumers and
we al also seeing it in the in the new
generation Jensen set gen alpha and and
the such they are not that interested in
having things in in buying things in
owning houses or cars and they are more
interested in having experiences going
to fancy restaurants and traveling. So,
and I think COVID also was a catalyst of
this. I mean, this was a trend that was
growing. But after people, these people
felt that their life go could go to
sorry to say to in one month. They
started thinking I need to live. I need
to to be experienced. I I need to have
experiences. It's not that important to
have a car. I can take my Uber and and I
I will I don't need to have my car in
the garage. And there was a shift of the
money of the of the of the of the of the
spenditure at home to more experiences
and travel is one of the of the big
benefited people of the excuse me
industries of of of this shift. So it's
true that in the last four three four
five years after what the effect that we
called the revenge trip people that had
been uh confined they wanted to travel
doesn't matter the cost the price they
wanted to be aware and and this was for
2020 this happened in 2022 and early
2023 now we have suffered some
go and falls of the GDP environment and
so on but still from a from uh a
standpoint which is higher than the
previous to co people is spending more
money towards traveling that they used
to
>> and and you mentioned that you guys have
roughly half your business from B to C
roughly half of from B to uh B
>> most businesses either focus on B2B or B
to C. So with your marketing, you know,
from my understanding, it's the same
website whether it's B2B or B TOC. You
probably have different landing pages,
but in general, it's the same website
from what I can tell and what I
researched before uh we got on the phone
and we talked.
>> I mean, it's not exactly the caa the
case. I mean, we but but we're in the
middle of of something. I can I can
share with you the the details and and
um
we we we do have a platform. I mean um
minor hotels Europe and Americas the the
company where I am CMO was acquired by
another company called minor hotel minor
hotels a tai company our our former name
was NH hotel group we at NH hotel group
we had a platform a business platform
called NH pro in NHRO and you can you
can google it we have all the um
services for agents meeting and events
organizers,
um,
travel managers at companies and and the
such. Now we are relaunching that nhro
company into a minor pro platform. So
it's not exactly the same the same
website. We have this minor hotels.com
website for the B2C and we h we will we
have and we will have because we are
relaunching in in in in a month or such
the minor pro platform where you can
find if you're a a B2B partner of minor
hotels you will find all the services
that we deliver to this audience to this
target.
>> Got it. So you do have a separate B2B
website uh platform. It's just not under
the minor hotels brand currently, but
you guys are shipping
>> it called minorpro.com and this is why
you have not been able to find it. I'm
sorry.
>> Uh, no, no, it's okay. Um, so, so you
have two different experiences.
>> Exactly.
>> How do you go about marketing to B2B
versus B TOC? Like what's a major
differences in strategies if you had to
pick two or three?
I mean I I think the the obvious one
that may happen in in in every in every
in in in the B2C
most of the of of of your effort is is
around
the top of mind. I mean you need to be
the top of mind of your of your
customers es especially in in in in
industry like consumer goods and so on
and it happens also in hotels not to
that level but it also happens in in in
hotels levels in in in B2B it's about
the value proposition and in the value
proposition to to to our B2B partners is
beyond the price is it also affects to
the commissions the way we pay the kind
the kind of contract that we have signed
with them the the the broader of our
effort of our offer. So they can they
can they can make we can become a single
touch point for a more complex offer to
their own clients. So it's it's it's
it's it's a different it's a different
effort. It's true that we try to have
similar visual identity. We try to have
coordinated
brand attributes when talking to to be
to CM2B. you cannot talk to with being
the most modern and contemporary brand
to your B2C guest and with very
traditional and al old fashion look when
you're talking to B2B it needs to be
coordinated but apart from that the the
approach is completely different I mean
we we we pretend to be strategic and we
follow the um old school in terms of
approach what what are which are your
audiences what is your communication
objectives what is strategic and and we
applied and you you you mentioned some
of my old former
employers, Proctor and Gamble, Pepsi,
20th Century Fox. I mean
I I try to apply the very same approach
that we used to do for
television advertising in the 1990s to
everything that we do. And we keep on we
keep on being very strategic at at the
time of do running any all of our
company our communication campaigns.
>> You know I I think that's a mistake that
a lot of companies make in which
you look at corporations out there and
spenders and PNG is probably if not I I
think they're actually the largest
advertiser globally. Um but a lot of the
the big mistake that people make is they
forget about being top of mind. And you
mentioned how you guys focus really
heavily on being top of mind.
>> And when I talk to people from CMOs to
entrepreneurs to marketers, they always
tell me, "Oh, you know, we spend a
dollar on marketing. We need to make $2
back right away." Um because there's
always costs and stuff. So if you're
making two, maybe, you know, you can
make it profitable over time or maybe
they want five or six. And then of
course they optimize for profitability
as well, which is a much lower uh
percentage. And when they look at
marketing that way, I always tell them,
you know, when you're doing SEO or
you're doing paid ads or you're doing
email marketing campaigns, yes, you are
going to get some sales, but you're also
building a brand at the same time. And
people forget that it really takes 10
plus years to build a solid brand where
people within your industry recognize
the brand. I'm not saying you can't get
results before 10 years, but it really
takes 10 plus years to build a solid
brand.
and people don't put in the time and
energy. But when I'm talking to these
entrepreneurs or marketers, I was like,
"Oh, you're wearing Nike shoes. How did
you buy those Nike shoes?" Very rarely
do I ever hear from the marketer. Oh,
well, I need a new pair of running
shoes. So, I Google the best running
shoes and then I read an article and
then these 10 shoes and they analyzed
them all and then I clicked on the link
and I bought Nike. or r very very rarely
do they say I watched this Instagram
video that analyzed the 10 best running
shoes number one was this Nike brand so
then I went to the store and I bought it
a lot of times and this is the majority
of the time and I know some people do
their research like the example I just
gave but the majority of the time people
tell me oh I just needed shoes so I just
went to Nike but then I say why' you go
to Nike and then they say that's just
what you buy
>> well the reason you just buy it because
it's top of mind and everyone's familiar
with Nike and if they didn't do all
those television ads and campaigns and
sponsorships of jerseys for all these,
you know, football and soccer and
basketball leagues, you probably
wouldn't see Nike as much and you
probably wouldn't buy them as much.
>> It's true. It's true. And and I I would
say the um I mean I am a senior
executive so far and and I I guess that
this this this what you were mentioning
is for me the the most profound change
in in marketing in the last 30 years.
When I started working when I started
working for these companies that we were
mentioning, these blue chips companies
that we were mentioning before and the
the the brand communication was only one
from univocal. It went from the brand to
the customer and the only thing that you
tried as a marketeer was to build top of
mind.
>> Yeah. As of the times of internet,
once the information started to be at
the edge of or at the grow hand of the
of the customers, the the the
communication between brands and and and
potential customers became unibical. It
it was not enough to be in the in the
mind of your potential customers. You
also had to put information accessible
to these guests because these pe these
people started to to buy or to to take
decision buying decisions based also on
the information they could they could
take from the from the web and this this
is where things changed. It was not a m
a matter only of top of mind but also
you have to provide good information
that the people can build a a decision
based on that. In the in the old times
this didn't exist. I mean, if you wanted
to continue with the what you were
saying on regards of of um shoes,
sport shoes, the only alternative source
of information that you could find, you
could go to the to the grand store, to
the sports store, and you could ask to
the to the clerk that was there, um, can
you recommend me, uh, sports shoes, and
that was it. You could not ask any
anywhere else. So I mean the the the the
information now is so massive and you
need to do it smartly. So I I cannot
tell I cannot say today that the being
in top of mind is as important as it was
30 years ago. But being part of the comp
set being part of the potential
competitors that a potential buyer would
be considering it's key. It continues to
be key. Maybe someone would buy would be
thinking of buying a Nike or Adidas or
Under Arour, but they will not buy
Chichinavo
sneaker despite it has a wonderful
review in in in in a certain
sport information website because
there's still something that is tied to
the brand. Maybe they are making more
rational decisions is they're not so
influenced by the wonderful spot of
Michael Jordan
scoring from 200 meters but still they
are influenced by by what the brands
convey and why what I am conveying while
while using the brand or acquiring the
brand. Yeah, the way I look at it is top
of mind is still very important like it
used to be, but with the way that the
web has come around, we've seen some
changes. The average consumer a few
years ago needed to interact or see a
brand eight plus times typically before
they purchased. Our latest data shows
it's in the 11 times now. So, it's
actually increased. So, you got to be
top of mind. But information has to be
super accessible where they can learn
about not just your company, the
services, the products, the offerings,
but they can answer any of their
questions or concerns that they have.
Um, and a great example of this is when
I was a little kid, I started playing
basketball in a league. So, we would go
to this shoe store called Foot Locker
because back then there was no Nike
stores. And when you go to Foot Locker,
they have brands from everywhere from
Reebok, Adidas, Nike, you know, FIFA,
the list goes on and on, Converse, etc.
And the way my mom when I started
playing basketball, she would ask the
store clerk, the person who was helping
us, my son's playing basketball, what's
a good shoe for him for playing
basketball? Right now, I can go on
social media or read a blog article that
breaks down all the different reviews
and type of options for a kid and the
sports and which one has the best
ratings for the price because, you know,
price is a very important factor in
today's world. And I think all those
factors are important for a company to
uh consider as well as being top of
mind. And if you're not everywhere, I
think you struggle. And this is why at
our company we have this concept at NP
digital where we call search everywhere
optimization. Most people look at the
internet and be like oh people start
their online experience typically with a
search and that tends to be Google and
instead of SEO for search engine
optimization. We look at SEO now a
search everywhere optimization because
there's over 50 billion searches a day.
Google has around 13.7 billion. They
control around 27% market share. But
platforms like Instagrams get 6.5
billion searches a day. BU gets five
billion searches a day. Uh Amazon gets
3.5 billion. Even Pinterest gets over
two billion. Chat GBT at a billion plus
a day. Even the Apple app store is
getting around 500 million a day. So you
got to be on all these platforms to do
well. So no matter if someone's on
Instagram or Amazon or Google or being
or chat GPT, they can learn about your
products and services and get what they
need wherever they are
>> and and and we have been using an
example which is
not the best one in with exposures. If
you're if you're thinking about
traveling, I mean 30 years ago, you only
have if you wanted to to understand you
wanted to travel to
Tai or to to Bali, I mean, you only had
these leaflets that were in the agencies
in the travel agencies. You go and you
open the magazine and there was the one
or two photographs of the hotel you were
you aspiring to go. I mean this compares
what to today you go into Instagram and
you find 15 influencers that have been
themselves personally with one minute h
shots of the hotel themselves. I mean
it's completely different I and but
still
if this hotel is uh one of the top
brands the decision is much is much
easier that this is a completely unknown
brand reputation and top of mind is
still valid and important for business.
>> No and just like the social example you
gave. So when my wife and I are going to
take a trip, a lot of what we do is with
our family, we will look up on social
media the hotel, the images, the videos
people are taking because you can look
up the exact destination people tag it
and you can see all the other videos in
that location. So not only could you see
the hotel, the type of rooms, what it
looks like, the experience, but you can
see all the stuff there is to do around.
And before it used to be where you would
go to the travel agency, eventually land
in the hotel and then go ask the um the
concierge, hey, what can I do around
here for my kids and what are things
opportunities to do or things that we
can pass time or experiences? But now
you can figure that all out before even
booking a hotel.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely.
Now with your hotel there's social media
and which we just talked about but how
do you what do you guys do from a social
media strategy like in with influencer
marketing in the hospitality space? I
know people have paid tons of
influencers and they get the views but a
lot of those views never really convert
into revenue. U maybe they do in the
long run. I know it creates brand
awareness but in the short run it's
hard. And the other problem with
influencers and people taking pictures
with social media, it may not represent
what the hotel truly is like in which
their picture is bad quality or video is
bad quality. Not because, you know, I'm
using a iPhone here. iPhone's great
overall, but it doesn't necessarily mean
that people know how to use it right and
they could have just use a very terrible
angle, terrible lighting, and it just
looks very bad.
>> Well, I mean, would you need to play the
that game? I mean in the marketing of
hotels in in the 20 21st century there's
no other way of of going through
influencers and I I've been I I I went
to United States uh three weeks ago and
I was talking with some media
institutional media the top travel media
and they were all they were all saying
that they are in the middle of a turmoil
because more and more their editors want
freelancers and they are not so ready to
have
journalists. in in in in in their
payroll because they're finding that
they're losing ground in terms of
influence in influence and these
influencers these travel influencers are
gaining gaining ground and they're
seeing this in the investment that
companies as as mine is doing in in in
in their in their media. So we need to
be there. It's it's interesting. We have
a very professional approach and I guess
that as many other big hotel companies
to to influencers before hand or before
hiring an influencer. We make a lot of
research in terms of the the cap
capabilities. We analyze them. We
analyze their their their influencing
support.
>> Hi everyone. Thank you for showing up
today. have amazing guests
in the media in the hospital. He is the
CMO of my hotel. They have 550 locations
globally, 5ish billion in revenue and
67,000
company of the hotel company. You go to
an influencer that is strong with a
certain audience and in a certain
territory. Before that you're at for
Pepsi Pro
that I want to talk to you guys about
many times in that initiative in which
you wanted to integrate Alexa within a
lot of the hotels so that way people can
control
hotel rooms from the voice aspect in
terms of accommodation which I thought
was People see that kind of stuff on TV.
very few of them actually implement that
second option would not go exactly to a
lot of people want to keep implementing
it with you hotel rooms which I thought
the request from the from the
from the from the influencer but it also
exists and it's much cheaper I mean
because if if they are asking you for a
support and accommodation I mean the the
cost for us as marketeteers to have them
in our in our in our um hotel and and
and and and making them having them
producing a a report on on our hotel is
much cheaper because we are paying many
times just with accommodation. Um, one
of the things I love about the
influencer approach that you mentioned,
a lot of people don't look at like the
engagement. You know, you have all these
influencers, some of them have terrible
engagement from followers to actually
views to shares to likes and you can
look at the comments and you can see a
lot of them are fake and then when you
don't do that, you're just wasting a lot
of money, you know, and then you just
don't get the results. But but in the
case I mean if if you are talking about
an influencer that is talking about
sports shoes I mean it's it's difficult
to to convey what is the real feel of
having a shoe
in in on your feet or or how would you
feel when you're running with these kind
of shoes.
If if you if if if you run a pan screen
with with with with your phone on a
swimming pool in in a in a in a hotel,
it's it's much more difficult to to make
it fake. I mean, you're seeing the
actual palms and you're seeing actual
the hat the bar hat in in inside the
swimming pool. I mean, it's there.
>> So, I have another question for you
because you must have a large marketing
team. I don't know how many people you
have um that report underneath you, but
my guess is 100 plus, 200 plus,
>> more or less.
>> Yeah. So, when you're looking at and
then globally, you guys probably have
maybe four or 500 people in marketing,
if not more, right? I could be wrong.
>> Not that much.
>> Not that much. Okay.
>> But either way, it's still a goodiz
marketing team. You must be spending
hundreds of millions on marketing. Of
course, you know, it's marketing is not
cheap in the hospitality and travel
space. But when you look at AI, I've
talked to a lot of people over the years
and they tell me AI is going to
revolutionize marketing and change it. I
don't disagree with them. I actually do
believe AI is here to stay. It's going
to change a lot over time. But then I
hear people say things like AI is going
to replace marketers. There's not going
to be any marketers. And the funny thing
is when I talk to all large corporations
like you know companies like yours five
billion in revenue is a lot of revenue
right? When I say hey how much has AI
impacted your marketing team from a
employee standpoint and I know you know
our team and I were talking offline
before but I bet you the answer because
we haven't talked about this. I bet you
the answer I'm going to take a guess
here. It's affected your employee count
by zero or very little in which the
technology is great. You can do more
things with the people you have, but you
can't just cut your team down from a few
hundred to 100 because of AI because the
technology is not there yet or nowhere
near close.
>> I mean um
for the time being I guess that you're
right.
Let let me give you an I mean AI I when
I think of AI I'm not talking I'm not
thinking exclusively about chat GPT and
the such I'm talking about generally
speaking of AI I give you an example of
one usage that we already it's a user is
a user case that we are already
implementing let me also advance that
the resources of a company like like
mine in the marketing arena is is double
is on one side is um the internal
resources but also is the agencies that
were hiring. So it's is is they are both
complimentary. So maybe your your your
payroll is exactly the same or has been
reduced
very briefly but maybe you are you're
using less agency resources and this is
what is happening to us. I give you a
good example that you know very very
well. At the time of running any kind of
display campaign in digital or any any
template campaign in digital of any kind
of visual
the huge number of different formats
that you need to to produce in terms of
the pixeling and the number of if
they're square or rectangular or we're
talking about hundreds hundreds okay we
have a a tool an a a AI based tool that
upon the big picture it produce them all
in one minute. This is an application
because he can understand because the
machine can understand
whether this pixel belongs to the title.
So I take the title away and put it on
this other part of the of the big
picture so it doesn't steps on the other
text which is a a an accuration or what
is going on in the big title. The AI
allows to do this analysis not by a
human, not one format, by one format,
but they the the machine understand the
whole the whole picture and they produce
the 250
formats in a in in in one minute.
>> Yeah.
>> This would took us like a couple of days
per campaign of manual power. Someone
say okay for Bing for Google for and the
format for this
now we do this very very easily. So this
is an example
again I and this is a personal election
I never see new technologies upon what
is producing today but in terms of what
it it used to produce five years ago and
what it my perspective of how we will be
affecting in five years from now and if
you ask me I can bet on that that AI is
going to substitute marketing
efforts in the next five years I'm sure
this is going to happen. I mean, if you
consider the marketing
practice, I mean this big ideas, these
big driving ideas, these just do it
valuable valuable ideas may still there
and will be run by by
humans. how just do it concept is
applied to the shop window of a certain
store in LA. Maybe this something that
AI can do.
So it's more maybe the big idea will
still in the hands of of the of the of
the top creatives.
I guess that the applications that today
you're not doing may finish may end in
the man in the hands of of of
artificial intelligence.
On the same page, I do see AI
substituting a lot of marketing efforts.
I don't see it fully replacing marketing
teams, which is what some people have
claimed. I see it as making people
better. I think a lot of the marketers
that are C, D, and F players, the lower
tier players being replaced. I think a
lot of the A and B players will be more
valuable and they'll be much more
efficient, be able to do more. Um, and I
think the technology is going to get a
lot better and help us do more with
less. Uh,
>> yeah,
>> but I think some people have gone to the
extreme in which you won't need to do
marketing. You just tell AI to do your
marketing and it does it for you. I
don't see a world of us turning that way
because if everyone starts doing that,
you're running very similar campaigns
and there's nothing unique or creative.
Um, so you still need differentiation
and I do think the winning combination
is humans in marketing combined with AI
and I don't think it's going to be pure
humans. I don't think it's going to be
pure AI. Um, and I think the technology
is going to take a lot longer to get it
to where it really needs to before it
has an impact on uh generating a more of
a ROI. And right now, what we're seeing
in marketing is a lot of the efforts AI
is creating helps save money and time.
Eventually, the technology will get it
better where it helps you make more
money, right? Instead of cost cutting,
it helps you with revenue generation.
And I'm I'm looking forward to those
days. Absolutely.
>> So cool. I appreciate your time. Thank
you uh for taking the energy.
>> Before we finish, Neil, I would like to
tell you this particular story. Maybe
you can you you you don't need to to to
to to for it afterwards.
>> No, we'll broadcast. Go for it.
>> I have the opportunity I have the
opportunity to talk with you and I want
to give you an idea of how important you
have been in my life.
I am as we were mentioning and and and I
think that you're more relevant than
what you think you are and I'm not
talking about myself. It's something
that I could make it general to many all
other people in Madrid which is the the
ground that I that I I I know I know
best and I started working in Proctor
Pepsi and the such as an analogical
marketeer.
I then went back I I I got promoted. I
became general manager of several
companies and at some moment in time I
was fired. I had to reinvent myself. I
was over 40 and I was an analogical guy
and I'm talking 2009 more or less 2009
the um social media had started 2007 in
Spain. So 2009 I found myself with I I
was a general manager in a food company.
I had to reinvent myself. So I had this
partner a friend of me of me who told me
I want to open the first social media
agency in Spain and he told me and you
have general manager skills you have
marketer skills I have the digital the
platform uh knowledge Cambodia and we
work together okay so I started working
there with zero zero knowledge I can
promise you that the first day I went to
Wikipedia and clicked EO and said click
to understand what CO was. I was over 40
years old. So I for the next 6 months I
started learning and I can tell you
there was no better source to understand
to know to grow in the digital marketing
arena that Neil Patel's
website and all the environment Uber
suggest all the all the things that that
that you were producing. I was a
follower, a seeker. Uh I nurtured about
that and and I mean I never thought I
never thought I was going to meet you. I
was thinking of meeting you in an
airport someday and I will I will get
closer to you and tell you you know you
were my my my profit in the in the
digital arena. But today I had the
chance and I I had the opportunity of
saying thank you directly to you. You're
you're too kind when my mind and I can
tell you there are many people that
thinks the way I I do.
>> Thank you. You're too kind. I really
appreciate that.
>> No, I I'm saying I'm telling the truth.
If anyone was What was the name of this
Seth Godin? If said if I was being
interviewed by Segodin, I would not be
telling the same truth.
>> Thank you.
>> I tell it to you because I think it's
true.
>> Awesome. Well, really appreciate. Thank
you for your time and thank you everyone
for listening.
>> Thank you very much Ne. Thank you. Thank
you all.